# OpenTelemetry .NET Diagnostic: OTEL1000

## Overview

This is an Experimental API diagnostic covering the following APIs:

* `ILoggingBuilder.UseOpenTelemetry`

Experimental APIs may be changed or removed in the future.

The following portions of `OTEL1000` were released stable in `1.9.0` and are no
longer considered experimental:

* `LoggerProviderBuilder`
* `LoggerProvider`
* `IDeferredLoggerProviderBuilder`
* `OpenTelemetryBuilder.WithLogging`

## Details

The OpenTelemetry Specification defines a `LoggerProvider` as part of its
[API](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/bridge-api.md)
&
[SDK](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/sdk.md)
components.

The SDK allows calling `Shutdown` and `ForceFlush` on the `LoggerProvider` and
also allows processors to be added dynamically to a pipeline after its creation.

Today the OpenTelemetry .NET log pipeline is built on top of the
Microsoft.Extensions.Logging `ILogger` \ `ILoggerProvider` \ `ILoggerFactory`
APIs which do not expose such features.

We also have an issue with the `ILoggingBuilder.AddOpenTelemetry` API in that it
interacts with the `OpenTelemetryLoggerOptions` class. Options classes are NOT
available until the `IServiceProvider` is available and services can no longer
be registered at that point. This prevents the current logging pipeline from
exposing the same dependency injection surface we have for traces and metrics.

We are exposing these APIs to solve these issues and gather feedback about their
usefulness.


## Logs Bridge API

The OpenTelemetry Specification defines a Logs Bridge API which is rooted off of
the `LoggerProvider` (`GetLogger`) and exposes a `Logger` API to submit log
records. See [OTEL1001](./OTEL1001.md) for details about the Logs Bridge API
implementation status.
